# HTML Basics

<h2>Intro to html tags</h2>

HTML is a way of representing the content of a webpage and is written using  **tags**

In code, tags consist of a `name`, an `open tag`, a `closing tag`,  and a `body`.

Name|Open tag|Body|Closing tag
|-|-|-|-
h1|`<h1>`|Text|`</h1>`
p|`<p>`|text|`</p>`

Tags with different `names` represent different features of a page. 
These features are referred to as `elements`. 

Using an example above, an `h1` element represents a header. 
Anything within the `body` of an `h1` tag will generally be larger and bolder than other text on the page.

The `body` of an `element` is **everything in between** the open and closing tags 
The `open tag` and `closing tag` must follow the correct format as shown in the table above, but the `body` can contain anything, including spaces, empty lines, and other elements.

The following code will create an `h1` element:
> `<h1> Header </h1>`

Which will produce this on a web page:
> <h1> Header </h1>

Here are a few more examples of html elements and what the look like:
Element|Code|Preview
|-|-|-
h1|`<h1> header </h1>`|<h1> This is a header </h1>
p|`<p> This is a paragraph </p>`|<p> This is a paragraph </p>
a|`<a href="https://google.com">` <br/> This is a link <br/>`</a>`|<a> This is a link </a>

<h2>Properties/Attributes</h2>

In the last example, the tag uses a **property** or **attribute**. 
**Properties** are placed **inside** the **open tag** directly **after** the **name** followed by a space

Properties consist a **name**, followed by the equal sign: **=**, followed by a **value** written in **quotes**. 
> `<element name="value"> body of element </element>`

**Properties** are not often well named but it is pretty easy to find out how to use them by doing a google search for the element. 

In the example above, the `a` tag has a **property** called `href`. Since the `a` tag represents a **link**, the **value** of the property is normally a **url**.  Clicking on the link generated by the code will take you to the website at that url. 

So this code: 
>`<a href="https://google.com"> This is a link to google </a>`

will produce this on a web page: 
><a href="https://google.com"> This is a link to google </a>

There are well over 50 different tags in html. click [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element) for a reference to all of them. Clicking on a single element listed at this link will show you what all of the properties are and what they do. 